# CS 340 Module Eight Journal

## How do you write programs that are maintainable, readable, and adaptable? Especially consider your work on the CRUD Python module from Project One, which you used to connect the dashboard widgets to the database in Project Two. What were the advantages of working in this way? How else could you use this CRUD Python module in the future?
> The program should import a database and use functions compatible with that database. Following frameworks such as the CRUD framework helps to develop a program maintainable, readable, and adaptable with said database. In Project One, I was able to establish the backend of the application. Some of these features include create, read, upload, and delete capabilities for entries in the AnimalShelter database. Project Two involved more frontend development as I needed to fine tune the interface for users of the AnimalShelter database, such as AnimalShelter employees and people looking to adopt an animal.

## How do you approach a problem as a computer scientist? Consider how you approached the database or dashboard requirements that Grazioso Salvare requested. How did your approach to this project differ from previous assignments in other courses? What techniques or strategies would you use in the future to create databases to meet other client requests?
> I see myself as the liaison between the client and the server. I first collect requirements from the client so I know what kind of features and information they need from the system. Then, I develop a working product that allows the client to communicate with the server—in this case, it is the AnimalShelter program. I fine-tune the interface at the end of the project since it is important that the client can connect to the server and communicate with it. I felt like I followed the software development lifecycle (SDLC), which I learned in an SDLC course a few semesters ago. I find myself using this to help plan out my project. The SDLC framework has been successful for me so far, so I will continue using this in future database projects.

## What do computer scientists do, and why does it matter? How would your work on this type of project help a company, like Grazioso Salvare, to do their work better?
> Computer scientists act as a translator between a client and their server. They are able to collect requirements and translate them into features of a program so that clients can effectively and securely work with their server. They are also able to provide input as to how clients can enhance the system or make it more convenient for their needs. My work on this project has helped me think more proactively for all parties involved with the system. I always try to keep expectations realistic, but also achievable so that the client has a seamless experience with the software.
